Some studies of how it was that Prussia resisted the wave of European democratization in the nineteenth century point to Prussia’s unequal distribution of land ownership as the principal explanation. And political figures from areas in Prussia with high inequality in land ownership tended to be the staunchest opponents of democratic reforms. However, arguments that focus only on those figures’ conflicts with landless people ignore the fact that political figures are not only representatives of socioeconomic interests but also political actors embedded in particular contexts that shape whether they support democratic reforms. Historians must take such contexts into account if they hope to explain what transpired in Prussia during this period.

Select Passage for the statement that best describes the purpose of the passage as a whole, and select Portion in Boldface for the statement that best describes the purpose of the portion in boldface. Make only two selections, one in each column.

Passage	Portion in Boldface	
To offer an alternative to the standard explanation of a particular historical event
To provide evidence that economic issues were at the root of a particular historical event
To criticize a certain type of argument about a particular historical event
To criticize the motives of political figures involved in a particular historical event
To encourage historians not to approach a particular historical event from too narrow a perspective
Evaluate
The passage asserts that some studies appeal to the fact that Prussia had significant inequality in land ownership during the nineteenth century to explain why Prussia did not participate in the wave of democratization in that century. Political figures in areas of Prussia with high inequality of land ownership were often most strongly opposed to democratization. The passage, however, asserts (in the boldfaced text) that such arguments ignore that these political figures not only represent socioeconomic interests but also are political actors embedded in contexts that affect whether they support democratization. The passage claims that historians must take such contexts into account to arrive at an accurate understanding of Prussia during this period.

RO1, Passage:
The passage argues that historians should not focus too narrowly on socioeconomic interests. Instead the passage asserts that they should think more broadly and consider other contexts.

The correct answer is To encourage historians not to approach a particular historical event from too narrow a perspective.

RO2, Portion in Boldface:
The portion in boldface is critical of arguments that focus only on political figures’ conflicts with landless people, saying that such arguments ignore certain key facts about the political figures.

The correct answer is To criticize a certain type of argument about a particular historical event.